.TH "gotty" "1" "30 September 2014"

.SH "NAME" 
gotty \- The really simple TTY terminal application

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP 
.B gotty 
[<options>] <tty device>

.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
.B Go TTY
or
.B gotty
is a really simple TTY terminal application which features a simple commandline
interface to easily connect to TTY devices for basic input/output.

.SH "OPTIONS" 

.TP
.B \-b, \--baudrate <bps>

Set baud rate [bps] (default: 115200).
.TP
.B \-d, \--databits 5|6|7|8

Set data bits (default: 8).
.TP
.B \-f, \--flow hard|soft|none

Set flow control (default: none).
.TP
.B \-s, \--stopbits 1|2

Set stop bits (default: 1).
.TP
.B \-p, \--parity odd|even|none

Set parity (default: none).
.TP
.B \-o, \--output-delay <ms>

Set output delay [ms] - delay inserted between each transmitted character (default: 0).
.TP
.B \-n, \--no-autoconnect

Disable automatic connect.
.TP
.B \-v, \--version

Display program version.
.TP
.B \-h, \--help

Display help.

.SH "KEYS"
.TP
In session, press ctrl-g + q to quit.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
The most common use is without options. For example:
gotty /dev/ttyUSB0
.TP
Which corresponds to:
gotty -b 115200 -d 8 -f none -s 1 -p none /dev/ttyUSB0
.TP
It is recommended to connect serial tty devices by id. For example:
gotty /dev/serial/by-id/usb-FTDI_TTL232R-3V3_FTGQVXBL-if00-port0
.PP
Using serial devices by id ensures that gotty automatically reconnects to the
correct serial device if the device is disconnected and then reconnected.

.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP
Written by Martin Lund <martin.lund@keep-it-simple.com>.
